# CARBON FOOTPRINT MONITORING TOOL

A carbon footprint is the total amount of greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide and methane) that are generated by our actions. Reducing your carbon footprint directly contributes to global efforts against climate change, mitigating extreme weather and rising temperatures. Cutting carbon often means using fewer natural resources, and promoting sustainability in water, energy, and raw materials. Acknowledging and addressing your carbon impact demonstrates social and environmental responsibility.


## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.


## Technologies
* HTML
* CSS
* Javascript
* Python 3.12.7
* Flask 3.0.3
* Matplotlib


## Features

The things you need before installing the software.

* Tracks and calculates the carbon footprint based on key aspects such as energy usage, waste management, and business travel.
* Displays energy consumption data in a user-friendly dashboard. Calculates energy-based emissions from electricity, natural gas, and fuel usage.
* Monitors monthly waste generation and calculates the associated carbon footprint. Tracks waste segregation and recycling percentages to encourage better waste management practices.
* Tracks yearly business travel distances and fuel efficiency to compute travel-related emissions.
* Encourages sustainable travel practices by offering low-carbon alternatives like public transportation or virtual meetings.



## Installation

A step by step guide that will tell you how to get the development environment up and running. The requirements.txt file contains all requirements that requires to run the applications.

```
$ First step
pip install -r requirements.txt

```


## Run Applications

A few examples of useful commands and/or tasks.

```
python app.py
```


## Additional Documentation and Acknowledgments

### Calculate Carbon :
*  Average monthly electricity bill in €
*  Average monthly natural gas bill in €
*  Average monthly fuel bill in €
*  Average monthly generated waste in KG
*  Monthly waste recycled/composed percentage
*  Your employees travel for business purposess per year
*  Average fuel efficiency per 100 km in €
